DOCS-1626 - Update /jira skill with DOCS project field reference (#6701)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: CLAUDE.md

- .claude/skills/pr-template-guide/SKILL.md — PR template structure, formatting examples, and best practices.

## Pull Requests
**CRITICAL REQUIREMENT**: Before creating ANY PR, MUST read `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md` and use EXACT checkbox labels from that file.

**Non-negotiable rules:**
1. **Read template first** - Get current checkbox labels from `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md` (never guess or use old labels)

> 2. **Use exact text** - Copy checkbox labels verbatim (never paraphrase: "Documentation content", "Website configuration", etc. DO NOT EXIST)

Reviewer: This parenthetical is too cryptic to be actionable. Saying these labels "DO NOT EXIST" tells Claude what's wrong but not what's right — and a future reader won't be able to infer the correct labels from this alone. Replace with the actual current labels:

```
2. **Use exact text** - Copy checkbox labels verbatim. Current labels are: "Minor Changes", "Update Content", "New Content", "Site and Tools"
```

> 2. **Use exact text** - Copy checkbox labels verbatim (never paraphrase: "Documentation content", "Website configuration", etc. DO NOT EXIST)

Reviewer: This parenthetical is too cryptic to be actionable. Saying these labels "DO NOT EXIST" tells Claude what's wrong but not what's right — and a future reader won't be able to infer the correct labels from this alone. Replace with the actual current labels:

```suggestion
2. **Use exact text** - Copy checkbox labels verbatim. Current labels are: "Minor Changes", "Update Content", "New Content", "Site and Tools".
```

Author: Fixed — replaced with your suggestion. Actual current labels now listed explicitly: "Minor Changes", "Update Content", "New Content", "Site and Tools".

2. **Additional sections** - Any extra sections (Summary, Testing Plan, etc.) go UNDER "Purpose of this pull request" heading, before "Select the type of change"
3. **Pre-check the appropriate checkbox** - Check the correct box but leave ALL four checkboxes in the list. Never remove unchecked items from the "Select the type of change" section
**Non-negotiable rules:**
1. **Read template first** - Get current checkbox labels from `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md` (never guess or use old labels)
2. **Use exact text** - Copy checkbox labels verbatim (never paraphrase: "Documentation content", "Website configuration", etc. DO NOT EXIST)
3. **Keep all checkboxes** - Pre-check one box, leave all four in the list
4. **PR title format**: `TICKET - Description` (e.g., `DOCS-1234 - Add PostgreSQL app`)

> 5. **Ask for ticket number** - Always ask before creating PRs (optional only for quick typo fixes)

Reviewer: Was removing this intentional? Previously Claude would always ask for a Jira ticket number before creating a PR. Without this rule, Claude will create PRs without prompting — which may be the desired behavior, but worth confirming.

Author: Restored and extended. Claude will now always ask for a ticket before creating a PR. If the user doesn't have one yet, Claude will offer to create it via the Atlassian Jira MCP. Typo fixes remain exempt.

- .claude/skills/pr-template-guide/SKILL.md — PR template structure, formatting examples, and best practices.

## Pull Requests
**CRITICAL REQUIREMENT**: Before creating ANY PR, MUST read `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md` and use EXACT checkbox labels from that file.

**Non-negotiable rules:**
1. **Read template first** - Get current checkbox labels from `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md` (never guess or use old labels)

> 2. **Use exact text** - Copy checkbox labels verbatim. Current labels are: "Minor Changes", "Update Content", "New Content", "Site and Tools".

Reviewer: Rule 1 and rule 2 contradict each other

- Rule 1: "Get current checkbox labels from .github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md (never guess or use old labels)."
- Rule 2 immediately hardcodes them: "Current labels are: 'Minor Changes', 'Update Content', 'New Content', 'Site and Tools'." The labels match today, but rule 2 defeats the purpose of rule 1 — an LLM will follow the explicit static list rather than fetching the file, exactly the failure rule 1 was designed to prevent. 

Fix: drop the hardcoded list from rule 2, or make it an example rather than a canonical reference.

3. Wait for explicit approval before pushing

## Jira Rules
**CRITICAL**: All Jira operations MUST follow the patterns defined in `.claude/commands/jira.md`.

### Field Requirements
- **Assignee**: Auto-assign newly created tickets based on Technical Area → Writer mappings in `.claude/commands/jira.md`. If no mapping exists, assign to current user unless otherwise specified.
- **Technical Area**: REQUIRED field. Must be set from allowed values. Use file paths and content keywords to determine the correct area (see `.claude/commands/jira.md` for mappings).
- **Existing Tech Docs Link** (`customfield_10750`): 
  - REQUIRED when transitioning to Published status
  - MUST be populated when creating or updating tickets that touch existing articles

>   - Use full production URL (e.g., `https://help.sumologic.com/docs/get-started/training-certification-faq`)

Reviewer: legacy URL

```suggestion
  - Use full production URL (e.g., `https://www.sumologic.com/help/docs/get-started/training-certification-faq`)
```

Author: Fixed — updated to `www.sumologic.com/help/...`.

- **GitHub PR link** (`customfield_10466`): After creating a PR, automatically update this field with the PR URL
- **Description**: Always use `contentFormat: markdown`

### Workflow Requirements
- **Creating tickets**: Follow the three-approach pattern (user description, analyze changes, or file paths) defined in `.claude/commands/jira.md`
- **Titles**: Sentence case, action verb, specific, under 10 words
- **Descriptions**: Benefit-driven, active voice, under 150 words unless complex, markdown format
- **Comment attribution**: Always append `— via Claude Code` to any comment posted to a Jira ticket

> - **Status transitions**: Use workflow states: To Do → In Progress → In Review → Published/Done

Reviewer: The workflow states listed here don't match the actual DOCS Jira project. The real states are:

**Backlog → To Do → In Progress → Blocked → In Review → On Hold → Published → Closed**

The documented version is missing Backlog, Blocked, and On Hold, and uses "Done" instead of "Closed".

Author: Fixed — updated to match the actual DOCS project workflow: `Backlog → To Do → In Progress → Blocked → In Review → On Hold → Published → Closed`.
